.\" man page for librisp64
.\" Contact support@opencluster.org to correct errors or omissions. 
.TH librisp64 3 "18 July 2016" "3.20.00" "Library for creating and parsing a RISP based stream."
.SH NAME
librisp64 \- Library for creating and parsing a RISP based stream.
.SH SYNOPSIS
#include <risp64.h>
.sp
.B RISP_PTR risp_init(RISP_PTR risp);
.br
.B RISP_PTR risp_shutdown(RISP_PTR risp);
.br
.B void risp_add_invalid(RISP_PTR risp, void *callback);
.br
.B void risp_add_command(RISP_PTR risp, risp_command_t command, void *callback);
.br
.B risp_length_t risp_process(RISP_PTR risp, void *base, risp_length_t length, const void *data);
.br
.B risp_length_t risp_addbuf_noparam(void *buffer, risp_command_t command);
.br
.B risp_length_t risp_addbuf_int(void *buffer, risp_command_t command, risp_int_t value);
.br
.B risp_length_t risp_addbuf_str(void *buffer, risp_command_t command, risp_length_t length, void *data);
.br
.B risp_length_t risp_command_length(risp_command_t command, risp_length_t length);
.sp
compile with the 
.B -lrisp64
option
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B librisp64
is a library that can encode and decode RISP based protocols.  The general idea of RISP is that each different peice of data that is needed for a protocol is broken down into seperate simple commands that can be combined to provide all the functionality of the protocol.   
.B librisp64
gives you the functionality to add the individual commands to a buffer.  It also fascilitates the handling and decoding of a RISP stream.  For each command, a callback function is specified, and when a buffer of received stream data is processed, it will call the appropriate callback function for each command.
.sp

.SH SEE ALSO
.BR risp (3),
.BR risp_init (3),
.BR risp_shutdown (3),
.BR risp_add_invalid (3),
.BR risp_add_command (3),
.BR risp_process (3),
.BR risp_addbuf_noparam (3),
.BR risp_addbuf_int (3),
.BR risp_addbuf_str (3),
.BR risp_command_length (3).

.SH AUTHOR
.nf
Clint Webb (webb.clint@gmail.com)
.br
http://rhokz.com/
.fi
.SH HISTORY
August 29, 2016 \- v3.20.
